One of the main things that stands in the way of continuous delivery is fear.
Fear that the new code might break production.
Out of fear, we impose manual pauses in
our pipeline to do humans smoke tests all the time,
poking around to make sure that things still work.
Well, as you know,
trust is earned and it takes time.
A job like an automated smoke test that
spot-checks and make sure that the deployment is okay,
helps to build trust.
Hopefully, as trust and confidence rise,
we can start relaxing the manual pauses and shift our trust to the CI/CD pipeline.
That brings us another step closer to true continuous delivery.
Let's take a look at my code.
As promised, I really just wrapped that if structure in a job.
I did add an environment variable here just to keep things a little bit cleaner.
I'm using blog.udacity.com.
Just as in the example,
I'm curling that URL.
If it passes, I'm returning a zero.
If it doesn't exist,
or if it's not responding to requests,
it should return a one.
Of course, any non-zero return code is going to cause the step and the job to fail.
The full configuration file is below this video.